mysteries of vernacular window an
opening constructed in a wall to admit
light or air when the Scandinavian
settlers invaded England in the Middle
Ages they brought with them a whole slew
of words whose modern descendants have
become part of our everyday vernacular
their word for window was related to the
old norse word for the same
architectural feature wind alga vinegar
was a compound composed of two separate
words vendrá meaning wind and augur
meaning eye the word vind augur was
probably quite old having come into
being long before windows were made of
glass this type of metaphoric compound
called a kenning was very popular in
both Norse and Old English the beautiful
literary trope was used in the Norse
word for ship literally wave steed and
in the epic poem Beowulf where the sea
is described as a whale rode and blood
is described as battle sweat and
slaughtered you from its literal yet
lyrical beginning the word window has
expanded beyond its concrete definition
as a construction or design element to
be used figuratively and phrases like
the poetic window of opportunity
you